hey everyone I'm Judith Jones food and
travel editor of the gourmet travel east
and today I'm going to be showing you
how to make a ham and caramelized onion
grilled cheese sandwich so what are you
going to need for this delicious
concoction kind of cold winter's day is
two slices of ham which we've cut in
half then we have two slices of
sourdough bread we've got two
tablespoons of butter in here we've got
a quarter of an onion which we've
caramelized and we have one a slice one
block of Humboldt fog cheese now we've
caramelized our onions which means we've
let them fry in some oil or butter for
about 20 minutes and let the onions get
nice and soft and the cheese that we're
using this is a Californian cheese
rolled in Humboldt fog County so this is
the delicious creamy cheese were using
and it has a little slice of vegetable
ash in the middle which makes it look
like a little bit like a cake don't you
think yes it does all right now we have
our cast-iron pan right here and we're
using cast-iron pan it keeps in the heat
and lets our grilled cheeses get nice
and crunchy if you don't have a flat
iron griddle this is the best thing to
use so let's get our bread and we're
going to layer on our butter both sides
now be nice and generous with your
butter on your sourdough bread because
that's what's going to make it nice and
crunchy and crispy
there you go can never have enough
butter real cheese don't tell your
doctor I said that one all right so
we've got our custom pan to a medium
heat and what we gonna do is we're gonna
place we're gonna place this one butter
side down onto the cast iron pan so
that's gonna Brown nice and quickly so
let's just cut up our Humboldt fog
cheese however you like it actually the
flavor nearest the rind is actually the
most flavorful it's a really nice creamy
light cheese great one really
sophisticated cheese to use if you want
to do a more gourmet style grilled
cheese and while that is browning we're
just gonna place it down on there let's
call it a little bit
that is gonna melt in that nicely
there we go lovely
alright
next let's get our caramelized onions so
this is going to give it a nice sweet
texture we've just sliced or carmelized
onions lengthways and we fried those so
they're going to go on top they're
delicious
beautiful one elegant sandwich really
indulgent but good now let's get our
come on our ham I just you know normal
at normal ham we're using here and we're
just gonna lay that on the top there now
if you really wanted to go crazy and
have a little bit more time to spare you
can use pork belly that will make a
definite at gourmet sandwich right back
i grilled cheese sandwich but just you
know for time wise and and for lightness
we're going to use a ham you know the
cheese is already very indulgent so
we'll use something a little lighter now
let's get our bread watch because
sometimes it breaks up the sourdough and
we're gonna put it butter side up right
on top of our right there we're gonna
let all of that melt in together make
sure it's on medium there we go and
we're gonna give it about 34 minutes on
each side so we've been a couple of
minutes and so I think it's just about
done let's flip it over right here oh
yes very nice nice and golden brown
crispy and our cheese is just oozing in
there and we'll do a nice little cut
love
great combination planet tastic this is
a great one much more kind of
sophisticated sandwich to serve at
dinner parties or treat at home that is
your ham and caramelized onion grilled
cheese sandwich thanks for watching
today everyone and make sure to
subscribe to our website to watch plenty
of other fantastic videos and if you
have an email request you can email
requests at Mahalo calm and we'll be
sure to answer any questions or queries
you might have